feat(docs): Multiple datasets (#2228)
apify/apify-docs: sources/platform/actors/development/actor_definition/dataset_schema/02_multiple_datasets.md

---

**Specify datasets with different structure.**

---

Some Actors produce data with different structure. In some cases, it's convenient to store the data in separate datasets, instead of pushing all data to the default one. Multiple datasets allow to specify those datasets upfront and enforce validation rules.

New datasets are created when the run starts, and follow it's data retention.

## Defining multiple datasets

The multiple datasets may defined in Actor schema using `datasets` object:

```json title=".actor/actor.json"
{
    "actorSpecification": 1,
    "name": "my-e-commerce-scraper",
    "title": "E-Commerce Scraper",
    "version": "1.0.0",
    "storages": {
        "datasets": {
            "default": "./products_dataset_schema.json",
            "categories": "./categories_dataset_schema.json"
        }
    }
}
```

Schemas of individual datasets can be provided as a file reference or inlined and follow the same structure as schema of a single dataset.

The keys of the `datasets` objects are **aliases**, which can be used to refer to the specific datasets. In the example above, we have two datasets, aliased as `default` and `categories`.

:::info

> Alias and **name** are not the same thing. Named datasets have specific behavior in Apify platform (eg, the automatic data retention policy does not apply to them). Aliased datasets follow the data retention of their respective run. Aliases only have a meaning in the scope of a specific run.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Alias and **name** are not the same thing. Named datasets have specific behavior on the Apify platform (e.g. the automatic data retention policy does not apply to them). Aliased datasets follow the data retention of their respective run. Aliases only have a meaning in the scope of a specific run.
```
